About P.S.: Meso
================
(author: Nicki Hoffman)

Background
----------
Al Filreis of the University of Pennsylvania leads a MOOC on Coursera, called
Modern and Contemporary American Poetry (a.k.a "ModPo"). Poems studied include
experimental and aleatory/chance-based works, among them the "mesostics" of
John Cage. In the first run of the course, students used an online mesostic
generator called the "Mesostomatic," written by Matthew McCabe, to make and
analyze mesostics of their own. However, the program had its quirks and did not
necessarily follow Cage's rules for mesostics, and moreover, McCabe took it 
down sometime after the MOOC ended in late 2012. A few months after I began 
learning Python, I decided to try writing my own and see if I could do better.

The program
-----------
Originally coded in Python 3.3 in April 2013, with minor adjustments to make it
compatible with Python 2.7, as that is the version supported at the time by 
Django projects on my host (pythonanywhere.com). Web framework Django. I include
in this repository the original program and framework, including the templates 
and css.

I was still new to Python, my first OO language, when I coded the original, and 
was as yet mostly unfamiliar with classes (and with other useful features, such 
as filter() and lambda functions). In December 2014, I refactored the code to 
clean it up, simplify it where possible and remove redundancy. I include in the 
repository the refactored model as ps_meso.py.

The program is to be ported to PHP by ModPo's tech team in early 2015, so that 
it can be mirrored on the university's servers for use in the next iteration of 
the MOOC.

Original in situ program can be found at: http://vyh.pythonanywhere.com/psmeso/<br />
Refactored version here: http://vyh.pythonanywhere.com/psmeso2/


About Mesostics
===============

A "mesostic" is a deterministally generated poem with some chance elements. It 
is generated by "reading through" a source text with a chosen word or phrase 
that will be the spine of the completed poem. Words included must follow a few 
rules, below. The spine text is often the name of the source text's author or of 
the mesostic's creator.

Criteria of a mesostic:

  1.  Between 2 spine letters, neither letter may appear in lowercase;
  2.  Limit of 45 characters left of the spine, same to the right;
  3.  (Cage: "Then I take out the words I don't want."<br />
      My interpretation: Don't add all possible words between spine letters.)

For some of his mesostics, at least, Cage used chance operations based on the 
I Ching to determine which words to include. More about mesostics in general and 
Cage's in particular here:

http://everything2.com/title/mesostic<br />
http://www.writing.upenn.edu/~afilreis/88v/perloff-on-cage-howl.html<br />
http://www.writing.upenn.edu/~afilreis/88v/cage-quotes.html
